README.rst, before:

#######
Foliant
#######

**Foliant** is a documentation generator that builds PDF, Docx, and TeX
documents from Markdown source.


******
Get It
******

- Download the compiled binary from this repo's `bin` directory and use it
  right away:

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ ./foliant

- If you have Nim and Nimble installed, install foliant with Nimble:

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ nimble install foliant


*****
Usage
*****

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant -h

    Foliant: Markdown to PDF, Docx, and LaTeX generator powered by Pandoc.

    Usage:
      foliant (build | make) <target> [--path=<project-path>]
      foliant (upload | up) <document> [--secret=<client_secret*.json>]
      foliant (swagger2markdown | s2m) <swagger-location> [--output=<output-file>]
        [--config=<config.properties>] [--no-download]
      foliant (-h | --help)
      foliant --version

    Options:
      -h --help                         Show this screen.
      -v --version                      Show version.
      -p --path=<project-path>          Path to your project [default: .].
      -s --secret=<client_secret*.json> Path to Google app's client secret file.
      -o --output=<output-file>         Path to the converted Markdown file.
      -c --config=<config.properties>   Swagger2Markup config file.
      -n --no-download                  Do not download swagger2markup.jar
                                        (it must already be in PATH).


``build``, ``make``
===================

Build the output in the desired format:

- PDF. Targets: pdf, p, or anything starting with "p"
- Docx. Targets: docx, doc, d, or anything starting with "d"
- TeX. Targets: tex, t, or anything starting with "t"
- Markdown. Targets: markdown, md, m, or anything starting with "m"
- Google Drive. Targets: gdrive, google, g, or anything starting with "g"

"Google Drive" format is a shortcut for building Docx and uploading it
to Google Drive.

Specify ``--path`` if your project dir is not the current one.

Example:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant make pdf


``upload``, ``up``
==================

Upload a Docx file to Google Drive as a Google document:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant up MyFile.docx


``swagger2markdown``, ``s2m``
=============================

Convert a `Swagger JSON`_ file into Markdown using `Swagger2Markup CLI`_

If ``--output`` is not specified, the output file is called ``swagger.md``.

Specify ``--config`` to customize the output. Refer to the `Swagger2Markup
docs on properties`_.

If ``--no-download`` is specified, Swagger2Markup's JAR file won't
be downloaded. It saves time, but in this case you must have downloaded
the file yourself beforehand from https://jcenter.bintray.com/io/github/swagger2markup/swagger2markup-cli/1.0.1/.

Example:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant s2m http://example.com/api/swagger.json -c config.properties

.. _Swagger JSON: http://swagger.io/specification/
.. _Swagger2Markup CLI: http://swagger2markup.github.io/swagger2markup/1.0.1/#_command_line_interface
.. _Swagger2Markup docs on properties: http://swagger2markup.github.io/swagger2markup/1.0.1/#_swagger2markup_properties


**************
Project Layout
**************

For Foliant to be able to build your docs, your project must conform
to a particular layout::

  .
  │   config.json
  │   main.yaml
  │
  ├───references
  │       ref.docx
  │
  ├───sources
  │   │   chapter1.md
  │   │   introduction.md
  │   │
  │   └───images
  │           Lenna.png
  │
  └───templates
          basic.tex
          restream_logo.png


config.json
===========

Config file, mostly for Pandoc.

.. code-block:: js

  {
    "title": "Lorem ipsum",           // Document title.
    "second_title": "Dolor sit amet", // Document subtitle.
    "lang": "english",                // Document language, "russian" or "english."
                                      // If not specified, "russian" is used.
    "company": "restream",            // Your company name, "undev" or "restream".
                                      // Shown at the bottom of each page.
    "year": "2016",                   // Document publication year.
                                      // Shown at the bottom of each page.
    "title_page": "true",             // Add title page or not.
    "toc": "true",                    // Add table of contents or not.
    "tof": "true",                    // Unknown
    "template": "basic",              // LaTeX template to use. Do NOT add ".tex"!
    "version": "1.0",                 // Document version. If not specified
                                      // or set to "auto," the version is generated
                                      // automatically based on git tag and revision number.
    "date":"true",                    // Add date to the title page.
    "type": "",                       // Unknown
    "alt_doc_type": "",               // Unknown
    "filters": ["filter1", "filter2"] // Pandoc filters
  }

For historic reasons, all config values should be strings,
even if they *mean* a number or boolean value.


main.yaml
=========

Contents file. Here, you define the order of the chapters of your project:

.. code-block:: yaml

  --- # Contents
  chapters:
  - introduction
  - chapter1
  - chapter2
  ...


references
==========

Directory with the Docx reference file. It **must** be called ``ref.docx``.


sources/
========

Directory with the Markdown source file of your project.


images/
=======

Images that can be embedded in the source files. When embedding an image,
**do not** prepend it with ``images/``:

.. code-block:: markdown

  ![](image1.png)        # RIGHT
  ![](images/image1.png) # WRONG


templates/
==========

LaTeX templates used to build PDF, Docx, and TeX files. The template
to use in build is configured in ``config.json``.


************************
Uploading to Google Drive
************************

To upload a Docx file to Google Drive as a Google document, use
``foliant upload MyFile.docx`` or `foliant build gdrive`, which is
a shortcut for generating a Docx file and uploading it.

For the upload to work, you need to have a so called *client secret* file.
By default, Foliant tries to find it in the directory it was invoked in,
but you can specify the path to it with `--secret` option.

Client secret file is obtained through Google API Console. You probably don't
need to obtain it yourself. The person who told you to use Foliant should
provide you this file as well.


**************************
Embedding seqdiag Diagrams
**************************

Foliant lets you embed `seqdiag <http://blockdiag.com/en/seqdiag/>`__
diagrams.

In order to use thie feature install seqdiag from PyPI:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ pip install seqdiag

To embed a diagram, put its definition in a fenced code block:

.. code-block:: markdown

  ```seqdiag Optional single-line caption
  seqdiag {
  browser  -> webserver [label = "GET /index.html"];
  browser <-- webserver;
  browser  -> webserver [label = "POST /blog/comment"];
              webserver  -> database [label = "INSERT comment"];
              webserver <-- database;
  browser <-- webserver;
  }
  ```

This is transformed into ``![Optional single-line caption. (diagrams/0.png)``,
where ``diagrams/0.png`` is an image generated from the diagram definition.


***************
Troubleshooting
***************

macOS: ``could not import: pcre_free_study`` when executing the binary
======================================================================

Install a newer version of PCRE:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ brew install pcre


macOS: ``permission denied`` when executing the binary
======================================================

Make the file executable:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ chmod +x foliant

Commit message:

Add info on customizing seqdiag.

README.rst, after:

#######
Foliant
#######

**Foliant** is a documentation generator that builds PDF, Docx, and TeX
documents from Markdown source.


******
Get It
******

- Download the compiled binary from this repo's `bin` directory and use it
  right away:

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ ./foliant

- If you have Nim and Nimble installed, install foliant with Nimble:

  .. code-block:: shell

    $ nimble install foliant


*****
Usage
*****

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant -h

    Foliant: Markdown to PDF, Docx, and LaTeX generator powered by Pandoc.

    Usage:
      foliant (build | make) <target> [--path=<project-path>]
      foliant (upload | up) <document> [--secret=<client_secret*.json>]
      foliant (swagger2markdown | s2m) <swagger-location> [--output=<output-file>]
        [--config=<config.properties>] [--no-download]
      foliant (-h | --help)
      foliant --version

    Options:
      -h --help                         Show this screen.
      -v --version                      Show version.
      -p --path=<project-path>          Path to your project [default: .].
      -s --secret=<client_secret*.json> Path to Google app's client secret file.
      -o --output=<output-file>         Path to the converted Markdown file.
      -c --config=<config.properties>   Swagger2Markup config file.
      -n --no-download                  Do not download swagger2markup.jar
                                        (it must already be in PATH).


``build``, ``make``
===================

Build the output in the desired format:

- PDF. Targets: pdf, p, or anything starting with "p"
- Docx. Targets: docx, doc, d, or anything starting with "d"
- TeX. Targets: tex, t, or anything starting with "t"
- Markdown. Targets: markdown, md, m, or anything starting with "m"
- Google Drive. Targets: gdrive, google, g, or anything starting with "g"

"Google Drive" format is a shortcut for building Docx and uploading it
to Google Drive.

Specify ``--path`` if your project dir is not the current one.

Example:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant make pdf


``upload``, ``up``
==================

Upload a Docx file to Google Drive as a Google document:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant up MyFile.docx


``swagger2markdown``, ``s2m``
=============================

Convert a `Swagger JSON`_ file into Markdown using `Swagger2Markup CLI`_

If ``--output`` is not specified, the output file is called ``swagger.md``.

Specify ``--config`` to customize the output. Refer to the `Swagger2Markup
docs on properties`_.

If ``--no-download`` is specified, Swagger2Markup's JAR file won't
be downloaded. It saves time, but in this case you must have downloaded
the file yourself beforehand from https://jcenter.bintray.com/io/github/swagger2markup/swagger2markup-cli/1.0.1/.

Example:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ foliant s2m http://example.com/api/swagger.json -c config.properties

.. _Swagger JSON: http://swagger.io/specification/
.. _Swagger2Markup CLI: http://swagger2markup.github.io/swagger2markup/1.0.1/#_command_line_interface
.. _Swagger2Markup docs on properties: http://swagger2markup.github.io/swagger2markup/1.0.1/#_swagger2markup_properties


**************
Project Layout
**************

For Foliant to be able to build your docs, your project must conform
to a particular layout::

  .
  │   config.json
  │   main.yaml
  │
  ├───references
  │       ref.docx
  │
  ├───sources
  │   │   chapter1.md
  │   │   introduction.md
  │   │
  │   └───images
  │           Lenna.png
  │
  └───templates
          basic.tex
          restream_logo.png


config.json
===========

Config file, mostly for Pandoc.

.. code-block:: js

  {
    "title": "Lorem ipsum",           // Document title.
    "second_title": "Dolor sit amet", // Document subtitle.
    "lang": "english",                // Document language, "russian" or "english."
                                      // If not specified, "russian" is used.
    "company": "restream",            // Your company name, "undev" or "restream".
                                      // Shown at the bottom of each page.
    "year": "2016",                   // Document publication year.
                                      // Shown at the bottom of each page.
    "title_page": "true",             // Add title page or not.
    "toc": "true",                    // Add table of contents or not.
    "tof": "true",                    // Unknown
    "template": "basic",              // LaTeX template to use. Do NOT add ".tex"!
    "version": "1.0",                 // Document version. If not specified
                                      // or set to "auto," the version is generated
                                      // automatically based on git tag and revision number.
    "date":"true",                    // Add date to the title page.
    "type": "",                       // Unknown
    "alt_doc_type": "",               // Unknown
    "filters": ["filter1", "filter2"] // Pandoc filters
  }

For historic reasons, all config values should be strings,
even if they *mean* a number or boolean value.


main.yaml
=========

Contents file. Here, you define the order of the chapters of your project:

.. code-block:: yaml

  --- # Contents
  chapters:
  - introduction
  - chapter1
  - chapter2
  ...


references
==========

Directory with the Docx reference file. It **must** be called ``ref.docx``.


sources/
========

Directory with the Markdown source file of your project.


images/
=======

Images that can be embedded in the source files. When embedding an image,
**do not** prepend it with ``images/``:

.. code-block:: markdown

  ![](image1.png)        # RIGHT
  ![](images/image1.png) # WRONG


templates/
==========

LaTeX templates used to build PDF, Docx, and TeX files. The template
to use in build is configured in ``config.json``.


************************
Uploading to Google Drive
************************

To upload a Docx file to Google Drive as a Google document, use
``foliant upload MyFile.docx`` or `foliant build gdrive`, which is
a shortcut for generating a Docx file and uploading it.

For the upload to work, you need to have a so called *client secret* file.
By default, Foliant tries to find it in the directory it was invoked in,
but you can specify the path to it with `--secret` option.

Client secret file is obtained through Google API Console. You probably don't
need to obtain it yourself. The person who told you to use Foliant should
provide you this file as well.


**************************
Embedding seqdiag Diagrams
**************************

Foliant lets you embed `seqdiag <http://blockdiag.com/en/seqdiag/>`__
diagrams.

In order to use thie feature install seqdiag from PyPI:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ pip install seqdiag

To embed a diagram, put its definition in a fenced code block:

.. code-block:: markdown

  ```seqdiag Optional single-line caption
  seqdiag {
  browser  -> webserver [label = "GET /index.html"];
  browser <-- webserver;
  browser  -> webserver [label = "POST /blog/comment"];
              webserver  -> database [label = "INSERT comment"];
              webserver <-- database;
  browser <-- webserver;
  }
  ```

This is transformed into ``![Optional single-line caption. (diagrams/0.png)``,
where ``diagrams/0.png`` is an image generated from the diagram definition.


Customizing Diagrams
====================

To use a custom font, create the file ``$HOME/.blockdiagrc`` and define
the full path to the font (`ref <http://blockdiag.com/en/blockdiag/introduction.html#font-configuration>`__):

.. code-block:: shell

  $ cat $HOME/.blockdiagrc
  [blockdiag]
  fontpath = /usr/share/fonts/truetype/ttf-dejavu/DejaVuSerif.ttf

You can define `other params <http://blockdiag.com/en/seqdiag/sphinxcontrib.html#configuration-file-options>`__
as well (remove ``seqdiag_`` from the beginning of the param name).


***************
Troubleshooting
***************

macOS: ``could not import: pcre_free_study`` when executing the binary
======================================================================

Install a newer version of PCRE:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ brew install pcre


macOS: ``permission denied`` when executing the binary
======================================================

Make the file executable:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ chmod +x foliant
